Actually, you know what I got that's a really interesting...
I wonder if anybody in the Mumba Room has any experience with any of this crap.
I got one of these, uh...
Logitech Harmony...
Logitech Harmony Hub.
My dad got this for me for my birthday last week.
And, uh...
So it's a puck-looking thing.
And it has...
Basically like a thousand IR blasters in it that shoot off in every direction.
And you then pair it with a...
Whatever. You could just use the app or you pair it with like an Alexa or you can actually control it from a Roku or...
Lots of things.
And it allows you to voice control your television and your DVR and your...
Internet media set-top box, whatever it might be.
And, uh...
I don't know how much it is because like I said it was a gift.
But, uh...
I just got it.
And now I'm wondering how the hell I set it up.
Here, they've got a little thing on it.
Yeah!
One-touch control because everyone wants touchscreen.
Who wants to use touchscreen controls for their...
I do, I do.
Hello, Wes!
We've got to get, like, oily fingerprints on the screen. Come on.
Like, I want to be able to control my TV with physical buttons.
Like, I want to be able to feel them.
Or my voice, I would take that.
If the thing had good enough mics to pick me up.
So this would use the Alexa to...
So the Alexa would be the front end of the Harmony Hub.
I just got the Harmony Hub as a gift.
Yeah.
And it does basically...
It is like this huge IR blaster.
And so you kind of put it in the middle of your entertainment system.
And it blasts out all directions to control your different devices and stuff.
When it comes with a bunch of apps that you can use.
Yeah.
You know when someone doesn't have an Amazon Echo or an Echo Dot is when they're quite confident in saying Alexa out loud.
Oh, you're right.
No, I've got one in this room.
I've got one in this room.
I should know better.
I'm working on it.
I really am.
I'm trying to say Echo.
I'm also trying not to say, okay, googs.
You know, I'm trying...
And also, hey, s-word.
I'm trying not to do any of that stuff because...
I find myself saying it like prudes from the past say the word sex, like under their breath.
Yeah.
That's what I do too, usually.
My son...
My daughter's...
I was just going to say my daughter's been figuring out where she can use the word so that it doesn't trigger.
Yeah.
My son's been...
And she's figured out if it's mid-sentence, she can get away with it.
But it can't be at the beginning or the end of the sentence.
Yeah.
And when she's talking about it, she calls it Lexi.
Oh, that's good.
I have noticed that my kids have adopted the a-word.
They say the a-word, which is funny because that could mean other things.
But to them, it means Alexa.
You know what I mean?
Wouldn't it be cool if Amazon had thought of this beforehand and called it a different name than Alexa?
Well, I mean, how common is that name?
I had the most fun with this, though, because I successfully trolled a friend of mine by giving him an Echo Dot.
And his wife's name is Alexa.
No!
That's awesome.
What are the chances?
I didn't think it was that common of a name.
No, neither did I.
But as soon as I...
I was like, hang on a minute.
And he's also called Martin.
I was like, Martin's wife is called Alexa.
This is too much fun.
That's incredible.
This is Linux Unplugged episode 182 for January 31st, 2017.
Welcome to Linux Unplugged, your weekly Linux talk show that's so awash in new Linux hardware,
we're not sure where to start the reviews first.
My name is Chris.
My name is Wes.
Hello there, Wes.
Hello.
What a nice piece of shiny hardware you have sitting next to you.
We'll be talking about later on in the show today.
It's very nice.
Yes.
Yes, and we've got a good show today later on, too, with the part that I'm looking forward to the most.
We're going to hack Popey's server live on the show.
We're going to hack Popey Riot live on the show.
We're going to do that.
And, of course, we'll do some open source project updates, chat a little new hardware.
There's some big, big things on the horizon that I'm working on that I want to talk to you guys about.
Pick your brains about a little bit.
Ryan's here from System76 to make us drool over one of their new rigs.
Nice.
I know.
I'm drooling already.
Whoops.
You know what, Wes?
It's good to have you back.
I missed you last week.
It is a pleasure to be back.
I was sad to be gone.
You always give me.
So, yeah, we've got a whole bunch of good stuff to go over.
Plus, we've got the hack, and we've got the new hardware.
But bigger than all of that, Wes is back, and he brought us an Oaked Maple hard cider.
I don't even know what that is.
I'm not.
Yep.
I think it's apples, right?
It's got to be.
But it's so delicious.
It's a semi-sweet Seattle-based cider he brought us.
Oaked chips and back sweetened with pure Vermont maple syrup.
Okay.
Interesting.
Shut up.
It really is maple syrup.
Yeah.
So it's a Vermont maple syrup beer that we're drinking from Seattle.
I'll take it.
All right.
Well, we have many things to get into this week here on Yard Linux Unplugged.
So let's bring in our virtual lug.
Time-appropriate greetings, Mamoru.
Hello.
Oh, man.
Hello, guys.
That's amazing.
Yes.
Good.
Every time.
It gets it every single time.
Yeah.
You can have cider made out of other things, Sweetland.
You can have...
In fact, hard cherry cider is a real thing.
It is real.
Oh, yeah.
I'm just used to apple cider.
Yeah.
Apple cider, I think, is probably...
Pear cider.
That's another one.
Yeah.
But that's not what we're here to talk about today.
We've got some Linux things.
We do.
I've had a very interesting week in Linux.
I've been going on and on and on about this building this bulletproof Linux workstation
for me.
Just one or two of my systems that I want to last for like five years.
I'm trying not to talk about it too much because I know not everybody cares, but it's really
been what I've been living for almost two, three weeks now, actually, because it started
when I had an Arch crash.
Ooh.
Yeah.
Right in the middle of a project.
And then it just sort of got me down this path of, well, how would I build a system
if I never wanted it to crash again?
And there's so many different ways to split this up.
I kind of begun to land on sort of a Solus or Arch with Budgie desktop combo.
And then that crazy guy Aiki right after last week's show, like we get off the air with
Aiki last week.
Just chatting.
And he runs off and announces to the entire world that he's switching the Budgie desktop
over to Qt, which I think is probably a good long-term move because there's a lot of things
they've had to do to make it sort of pretend like Gnome over the years.
And there's a lot of crazy folks out there that are rewriting their desktops over to
Qt these days.
There seems to be a trend.
Yeah.
Well, and I think there's a reason for it.
It's not just because it's a trend, but also because there's some real technical merits
to Qt versus GTK when you're building something that's not Gnome and Gnome applications.
And I thought that was all great and good except for the fact that it leaves me all
of a sudden with the Budgie desktop about to go through this large transition.
A lot more change than you maybe otherwise would have expected.
Right.
Even change for the better, you might argue.
Yeah.
And I'm sure that they will only release it when they feel like it's ready for the end
users.
But even still, I'm building a five-year workstation here, right?
And so really it was Aiki's fault.
It got me thinking.
Aiki and also producer Michael, I blame producer Michael also quite a bit for this too, really,
really got me seriously thinking about the Plasma desktop.
And so I installed Plasma 5.8 a week and change ago.
On top of Solus?
On top of Arch.
Arch.
Okay.
Yeah.
I figured, I fixed my core Arch issue, which was a stupid infidelity font issue.
And I got the Plasma desktop set up.
And it has been, it has been, it has been 5.8 has been, that didn't mean to turn this
into a quick Plasma review, but I have never used a more stable rock solid version of the
Plasma desktop.
I mean it, every day, the week it's been installed on my system, and it's been a little more
than a week, every day for that entire time has met the, as my butt is entering the cushion
of the chair, as it's grabbing my butt, my keys are already being flicked by my fingers
and I'm already working and every time it's ready to go.
It's ready to go.
I don't have to fuss with nothing.
Nothing gets in my way.
I immediately start working the moment I, and I've set everything up, dude.
I've even got an echo in there so that way as I'm walking into the room, I can activate
all the devices I want.
So it's like this.
There's zero latency.
I just go to the computer, I spin around, I sit down and I start working and I issue
it.
The spinning's really important.
A lot of spinning.
You gotta twirl.
You gotta take time to twirl and skip.
And then I issue an echo command, it powers up all my devices and as I'm sitting down
at my keyboard, I'm working.
There is zero friction to getting to work.
And that's kind of necessary when sometimes I'm running into the studio, I got a live
show in five minutes.
I gotta get this thing done.
Finish this thing.
Yes.
You don't want the silicon screen to just twirl at you for a while.
And I have been extremely impressed with how snappy plasma has been, like just super snappy,
with how reliable, I have noticed, it's been extremely reliable, I have noticed a slight
continuous uptick in memory usage.
So I'm now using about a gig at resting more than I was a few days ago, but that can be
explained by a lot of things.
And how much, what did that peak at?
Well so far it's just sort of been steadily increasing, because you know, who's got time
to reboot West?
Yeah, rebooting.
Who's got time, right?
So I was really excited when Plasma 5.9 was announced.
And the KDE project says they're kicking off 2017 in style with Plasma 5.9.
Now producer Michael, you're not by any chance running it already, are you?
Because I know you on Neon.
Yeah, I got it.
Yeah, alright, without any further ado, are you ready for this?
Oh I think I am.
I'm very excited, the Plasma guys once again contacted me and had me record the video,
I'll just play a little bit.
Awesome.
I just do the voice work, they do everything else, so it's great, it's perfect.
They make the cool stuff work.
Yep.
After a few months of intensive work, the KDE community is pleased to announce Plasma
5.9, which brings many improvements and features to your desktop.
Global menu bars for applications have returned and can be used with either a desktop panel
showing the menu or neatly tucked away in the window bar.
Due to popular demand, we implemented switching between Windows and Task Manager using the
new MetaKey plus a number key shortcut for heavy multitasking.
It is now possible to create comprehensive look and feel desktop themes that will download
all the extras needed from the KDE store, such as color schemes and Plasma themes.
I can never win, Wes, because they just released Plasma 5.9 and here I'm thinking, I'm gonna
go Plasma 5.8 LTS, I'm gonna go 5.8, I'll stick with 5.8, and then they ship 5.9, like
days later.
They get you all excited about these features and improvements.
What are they doing to me?
Yep.
So I don't know, does anybody in the mumble room want to jump in on Plasma desktop before
we move on?
I think it's a fantastic release, lots of improvements, little things that make theming
nicer and whatnot.
It's not, well, I have been using Plasma 5 since 5.4 and it has only gotten, it's more
stable and more awesome every single release.
I have, I'll have one machine that's gonna stay on 5.8 just to keep testing it, but 5.9
is a solid option and I think it's actually a fantastic thing that they have an LTS version
of their DE and with Neon LTS, you basically get both LTS for Ubuntu and LTS for Plasma.
But if you don't want to have, if you want to have the latest version of Plasma, you
can also just use the regular Neon and you'll still have Ubuntu LTS, but you'll have Plasma
will keep rolling, which is awesome.
Yeah.
Yeah, I've been tempted by it, it's on my short list now.
Especially if you have the Ubuntu stuff so you can do snaps or PPAs as well for that
software availability.
Yeah.
We're gonna talk more about-
I've tried snaps in it and it works for parent-to-parent desktops.
Yeah, you see, so we're gonna talk more about that coming up a little bit in the show because
that is, I think honestly it's getting to the point where that is a genuine consideration,
especially for, like I said earlier, a five-year distribution.
So it's really nice, I think it's one of their best releases yet and if anybody else wants
to comment on it, you can, but otherwise I'll just leave a link in the show notes.
The video covers pretty much everything.
I really like, I think a lot of more open source projects should do that and if I have
the time, I'm making myself available to open source projects that want to make a video
but they don't have somebody to do the voice work, maybe they don't have a good audio set
up or whatever.
Totally willing to do that for people as long as I can fit it in, like in a couple of hours
on a Friday, I'll do it for you.
And it really seems like that's the kind of fit and finish that kind of goes the extra,
you know, you're like 90%, the software's awesome, they have a good website, but that
makes it seem like a very professional organization, which it is.
I think Gnome's been doing it for a while, right?
So it makes sense at the Plasma desktop.
Yeah.
Gnome started it and then all of a sudden they released, KDE released a video that was
terrible, you made fun of it and all of a sudden they're like, oh, maybe we should fix
that.
Yeah, and Wimpy, I know you've got a lot of community members that make spotlight videos
of the Mate desktop and of Ubuntu Mate, is this an area you've considered going down
to help promote the distro or do you feel it's not necessary?
It is something I've considered doing, yes, but it's a matter of having time and having
something that's demonstrable and, you know, usable for something like that, so we haven't
done anything professional.
Maybe we will in the future, we're just getting to the point where we've got enough crowdfunding
coming in that maybe over the course of a year we could put a little bit aside each
month and do something like that, but I'd rather use the money that's coming in to work
on the development stuff.
I agree.
I think that makes sense.
Mate 2.0 is a great opportunity.
We've got these community members.
Yeah, it seems like every now and then there might be a few banner releases or features
where it might be worth the effort or the trouble.
As if I wasn't doing enough on organizing something like that.
We need to just have somebody do it, you know actually Wimpy, not that you have all the
free time in the world, but you'd be really good at voicing a video like that too.
Oh yeah, I'd watch that.
Yeah, it's another thing I have all the time in the world for.
Yeah, I know.
I'll just do a British accent myself.
Yeah, that's pretty good.
All right, so Ajax, you had a question about Plasma versus other desktops.
Are you in the Mumba room?
Yeah, you are.
Go ahead, Ax.
Yeah, I'm not a new Linux user, but I've been using Ubuntu for a while and I'm just kind
of looking to branch out and I'm wondering how better is Plasma and what's the best way
to go and why do you think it's better?
Well, I'll just tell you my personal, and I'm not going to say anything's better than
anything else, but I'll tell you what I like about the Plasma desktop.
First and foremost, it's very smooth.
Everything renders very smoothly, the windows open really smoothly, but what I think I really
enjoy now about the Plasma desktop the most is all of the like the tons of crazy ass configuration
options that were wrong by default for so many years with the Plasma desktop are basically
all set to sane defaults now.
And so you can get one of the most incredibly powerful desktops and everything is powerful.
The terminal is one of the best terminal apps.
I love the way, I love console.
It is such a great terminal app.
The way it handles tabs, the way I can easily send input to multiple tabs at the same time.
Dolphin is a super fast file manager where I have directories that have tens of thousands
of files.
It just simply renders them and loads them better than files does, even though I like
files still.
Dolphin also has like great features like side by side pane support with a terminal
built into the file manager, which is great for me when I'm working on a filter.
So I really like the file management aspects of Dolphin.
I like the KIO slaves.
For example, I have a KIO slave where I take a screenshot of something, it automatically
uploads it to Imgur and copies the link to my clipboards and I just toss it right in
the show notes.
And it's slick.
Little things like that that I can automate that are really nice.
There's things I miss about GNOME, but for me, each little application you go down, they're
generally more feature rich.
There are things about the Plasma desktop that I miss that I feel like I could probably
work around.
The biggest thing I really like on Unity and GNOME and really anything that uses the files
or GTK file browser, even Thunar does this, is when I click on a Samba share, it uses
GVS to mount it to my file system.
And then I can use VLC and whatever else I want to watch.
Video files.
And even go to the terminal and interact with it.
Yes, exactly.
It's just a path on my terminal, which is huge.
I don't know how to accomplish that in Dolphin because Dolphin uses the KIO slaves and it's
uploading and downloading files to my server, saving them in attempt directory and then
trying to save them back up.
So if I try to watch a video in MPV, it tries to pull down the entire video first and then
open it up in MPV, which is a disaster.
There are some things I don't know how to fix yet, but so many other things are either
so much easier to set like one of my big frustrations used to be used to have to go to three different
places to configure when the screen went to sleep, when the screen locked out and if the
screen saver was turned on.
Now it's one spot.
So it's streamlined, it's nicer.
And also, honestly, the breeze theme has just gotten a lot of nice iterative updates.
It looks really good and GTK applications now look really good on the plasma desktop
and breeze has a very good dark theme.
And I like a dark theme on my desktop.
And so it's breeze again, and a lot of the white space issues I had with the plasma desktop
in the past, those have either been cleaned up, like Dolphin compared to Conquer is such
a night and day difference.
If you're coming at the desktop from the days of Conquer and you sit down at Dolphin, it
looks like they ripped off the GNOME desktop to some degrees, but only the best parts.
And the thing that I really like about it now is with a nice universal dark theme, plasma
widgets that don't crash all the time when I try to edit them, some same defaults, great
performance, super reliable so far, and a file manager that's super capable in actually
getting new features and not features removed.
Let's check on my boxes.
Let's check on my boxes, Wes.
I really like what you said about the defaults there because there's a lot of laptops or
other things where it's like I can kind of install GNOME and just, you know, even if
I don't have time to perfect it, it's very usable by default.
And for a while it didn't feel like plasma was.
But now, I mean, that sells me right there.
Yeah.
So I think if you're going to play with it, probably play around with Neon just to get
a sense of it and then pick your distribution of choice that matches your use case.
There's a lot to consider out there.
Neon's one of them, but I hear a lot from the SUSE camp.
I know Kubuntu is still an active project.
There's still a lot out there that you can pick and choose from.
So yeah.
All right.
Well, there you go.
We've got a new update.
Brand new version 5.90 is out today as we record this episode.
So you did see the story actually.
I saw the story come across the newsfeed too.
I'm really glad you tagged it for the show, Wes.
This gives me an unsettling feeling because I don't feel like we're getting the full story
here.
But Blackphone, remember the people that make like the super secure Android device with
silent OS?
Yeah, like VPN, SGP technology.
Yes.
Yeah.
Silent Circle.
Silent Circle has been sending out an update to some devices that bricks them to devices
they say that are counterfeit devices.
And it looks like, I'm not sure if they're counterfeit, but they weren't bought from
a reseller.
They were bought off of eBay.
They may, I actually, I believe they may actually be legitimate used devices.
That at least seems possible, right, from what we know.
So a reader in Germany contacted ours after the update bricked one of his phones, which
he had purchased through eBay.
The Blackphone 2 he said he received in the retail packaging, it looks just like the one
that was reviewed on ours.
It worked up to silent OS version 307.
When silent OS 308 came out, it intentionally bricks the baseband on the device.
When contacted, the Silent Circle technical support responded by saying, upon review of
the IMEI number you provided, it's been determined that the device is not a genuine Silent Circle
Blackphone 2.
The device was not sold by Silent Circle or an improved vendor of Silent Circle, and therefore
we are unable to provide any further assistance.
So hang up, basically.
This is, now of course, the Silent Circle folks contacted after this story contacted
ours and the project management VP said, Silent Circle's aware of unauthorized devices and
we're working aggressively to stop the sale of those as we've counseled, as we've counseled,
oh, as we've, oh anyways, it's imperative for our consumers and companies that we work
with directly to use authorized sales partners when purchasing Blackphone 2.
I'm not clear if this is used, I'm not clear if these are rip-off phones.
Right, exactly.
Do you know what bothers me about this story at the core of it?
Can you guess?
It's Android.
Well, there's that.
No, it's the, it's the, the aspect of the story that bothers me is the, well, we'll
just issue an update and brick it.
The hell is that?
Like if, you're, like fine if I can't use your software, but.
Don't allow me to click to your cloud servers, don't allow me to get updates from your Silent
Circle.
Maybe I want to still flash something else once I realize that it was a fraudulent phone,
but it's still a phone.
Maybe I still want to call 911 when I get in a car accident.
It's unbelievable how we have no sovereignty over our own devices anymore.
Samsung, bricking notes.
I really think that highlights the different way we think about mobile devices and Android
phones than a regular PC.
The mistaken way.
Yeah.
The mistaken way, the way we've been tricked.
It's a whole product.
It's not like composable things that you could maybe repurpose.
We've been bamboozled.
We really have been bamboozled.
Like, we just accept it like, like it's a toaster or something.
These devices are sometimes the most important devices people have in their lives.
Get ready for this, Wes.
More important than their PC.
Shocker.
This is Linux on point.
How dare you?
And, and if you're somebody out there buying a black phone, you probably like really care
about this stuff.
You're not an extra, you're not like your average consumer.
Like this stuff's important to you.
And so to have it be disabled, even if it's a knockoff, that doesn't justify bricking
the device.
It's still a useful Android device.
Push an alert message, send me some sort of unauthorized, like even Microsoft with illegitimate
versions of Windows doesn't go this far.
They might force you to reboot.
They might put a watermark in your lower corner, but they won't nuke your PC.
And if they did, I mean, that would be crazy.
It's a monster, Wes.
This what we have created as consumers, and it's our fault, it is our fault.
What we have allowed to be created as consumers, what we let Steve Jobs bamboobles us all into
is our own fault.
I really believe it.
Because if we as consumers would stand up and say something or refuse to buy devices
that can be remotely bricked, this wouldn't be happening.
Instead we have devices that have God knows what on the baseband, can't even be controlled
by the operating system.
Full of the thing.
The vendor who buys it can choose to brick it whenever they want, Samsung, now Black
Phone.
Who's the next Android vendor who's going to just remotely disable a phone?
Maybe that'll be the new thing, you know, oh, no more security updates, you're out of
service anymore, oh, you've had your phone for more than two years, it's just going to
stop working entirely.
Yeah.
Fader says he prefers it.
And I think the argument would be that these are supposed to be ultra secure phones.
And so if there...
Yeah, there is an argument there.
Yeah, I...
So this is...
But I feel like I've addressed that in my proposal.
My proposal is this.
Disable connecting to TCP IP.
Disable the TCP IP stack.
My proposal is send an alert in the Android notification that says this device is not
an authorized device, it is not to be considered secure.
But reflashing the baseband so that it simply just doesn't work, that could cost somebody
their life.
Somebody could be stuck in a car accident and not able to call for help.
Like, that is a step too far.
And I don't blame Blackphone, I don't blame Samsung, because they're really in these horrible
situations.
Like Blackphone doesn't want counterfeit products out there, Samsung doesn't want no devices
blown up in your pockets so you can sue them and give them more bad press.
So they're really in a rock and a hard spot.
It's not like they're evil, go ahead.
How many people while they're drowning in a car do a firmware update on their phone?
No, you do the update, you get in the car to go to work, and you get in the car accident.
It's not that crazy of a scenario, right?
No, and I agree with you, this is lunacy.
I think it's small company arrogance that they think they can do this.
A large company like Amazon tried this, tried reaching into Kindles many years ago, deleting
files from other people, from consumer devices, and look where that got them.
They've never done it since.
But this seems like the small company arrogance of, we've made a fantastic product and you
should appreciate the support we're giving you.
Not the Chinese method, which is throw a bazillion devices out there and we don't really give
a crap about them once they've left the factory.
It's the opposite.
They're caring too much about devices, whether they know about them or not.
That's a great point.
I also like the idea from the chat room that that could be a new action movie cliche, like
somebody drives off a bridge, their car is sinking but their phone is in the middle of
installing an update, the monthly Android update.
It's the new cliche.
It's like a really boring black mirror.
Even the car could be doing an update.
Yeah, that's true.
It could be the car itself doing an update.
Then someone has an Alexa dot or echo in the car and they have to do an update on that
as well.
Ajax, you want to take the devil's advocate position.
Go ahead, Ajax.
No, I think you guys are generally right, but the thought occurred to me as well.
Say you're a big company or a small company, an employer giving this to your employees
and you're working against corporate espionage and doing some really important stuff.
Do you want your employees to be able to override that?
Maybe as an employer you bought the black phone because you want it to break if it's
not completely secure.
Right.
If I'm the company that owns the devices, I get to say that.
It's not the manufacturer of the device that gets to say whether my employees can use their
devices or not.
It's me as the employer, the owner of the device.
It's always the owner of the device that should have control over the device, not the manufacturer
of the device.
That's my line.
That right there, that's my line in the sand.
That's exactly it.
It is, I feel like I should have root access over every device I own whenever it's feasible.
Maybe I could understand the car, maybe, but that's even like the Echo.
I feel like I should be able to go into some sort of settings mode, activate developer
mode and SSH into my Echo and be able to control it.
Tweak things.
Yeah.
There's a, we talked about it in the Linux Action Show, there's some state laws that
could help in the US, but I don't know how optimistic I really am.
I don't know.
I see cars as like a lethal weapon.
It can be used as a missile on the road, but I don't see a phone as being a lethal weapon.
I can see how someone might argue that the phone might shout out while you're throwing
it.
Don't throw me, don't throw me.
It's against the end user license agreement to use it as a missile.
I don't know.
Yeah.
If it's a node, it's okay.
BitMux, BitMux, you want to go, go ahead.
BitMux.
Yeah.
I'm here.
I was thinking, you know, maybe we could reverse engineer the breaking system and just intentionally
do the Galaxy Note 7 thing.
Someone steals your phone and just blow it up in their pocket.
Right.
I actually think that'd be great.
Like remote destruct.
Sure.
I'm not saying don't have it.
Let me control it.
Ooh.
Yeah, there you go.
I like that BitMux.
That's good.
What if a kid takes it?
Now you think it's with a burglar.
Now it's a weapon.
Now you think it's going to blow up the kid.
No, that's no good.
That's no good.
That is no good.
Yeah.
You got to eat.
With great responsibility comes great explosions.
I'm not quite sure how that saying goes.
It was something my uncle once told me.
This is not a morality podcast.
All right.
Well, while we're still talking about mobile, even tangently, let's take a minute and mention
our sponsor, Ting.
In fact, I'd like to mention linux.ting.com.
Why?
Oh, I'll tell you why.
Because you get to save $25 off a device or $25 in service credit if you bring a device.
And speaking of voting with your wallet, this is how you do it.
Ting's no contracts, no early termination fee, and you only pay for what you use.
Ting keeps rates simple.
We don't make you pick a plan.
Instead, you just use your phone as you normally would.
How much you use determines how much you pay each month.
You can have as many devices as you want on one account.
That's good because when you use more, you pay less per minute, message, or megabyte
of data.
Your usage plus $6 per active device on your account plus taxes is your monthly bill.
Simple.
That's what we mean when we say mobile.
That makes sense.
You know what Kyra doesn't mention?
Really great customer service.
Oh, yeah.
Top notch customer service.
You speak to a human.
They talk to you.
They fix your problem.
They stick with you.
They follow up.
I know it sounds like almost ridiculous and unbelievable to say, but they, Wes, by God,
they actually care.
They do.
It's like that's what their job is, and they take it seriously.
It's remarkable.
They're passionate about building a business that helps people.
What's great about it is they're backed by Two Cows, which has been around since before
the dot com crash.
These guys have really dialed it in and figured out how to do this stuff.
Two Cows also runs Hover, another company I'm a huge fan of.
I use them for all my DNS registration now.
They've really figured out how to build sustainable companies that feature the customer first.
They have a great control panel.
They have CDMA and GSM you can choose from.
They don't mess around with early termination fees.
No contract shenanigans, $6 a month for the line and your usage, plus whatever Uncle Sam's
going to take.
That's it.
Linux.ting.com.
Go there.
Check them out.
You cord cutters out there, check out their blog.
Also you tweeters out there, check out their Twitter feed.
They are following some of the rumors about Android One coming to the US on their Twitter
feed, amongst other things, like sometimes giveaways and whatnot.
They are at Twitter.com slash Ting FTW if you'd like to follow them.
Check them out.
They also have a subreddit.
Yes they do.
They're all over the web.
They're so hip over there.
YouTube channels, Google Plus pages, they got it all.
You start by going to Linux.ting.com.
That supports the show and saves you some money, Linux.ting.com.
Thank you to Ting for sponsoring the Unplugged program.
Let's pick up the pace and keep moving.
We've been talking about a lot of stuff.
One of the things that is in my hot little, actually it's in Wes's hot little hands right
now is a rig that we have in for review at this moment.
Go ahead, Wes.
Open her up.
Oh, this is beautiful.
So Wes right here has got himself the new XPS 13.
Who needs it when I got this new band?
I know.
Yeah.
The XPS 13 Kaby Lake.
It's got an i7 in it.
It's got the PCI SSD 4K screen.
It's currently running Ubuntu 16.04 with Unity as the desktop and just kind of using it in
the default configs.
What are your first thoughts?
When you pick it up, you look at it.
What do you think?
And you have which edition XPS Sputnik thing?
You have like a...
It's one of the first.
Yeah.
You have like the first and I have like the second or third.
And this is the sixth.
This is the sixth.
Wow.
Yeah.
It's well made.
I mean, and they've like not radical departure from the one that you have in terms of the
body, but it feels very sturdy.
I haven't done much on it, but Wi-Fi connected.
It's very snappy.
Yeah.
The screen is nice.
The screen is very, very nice.
There is a sort of a premium build feel about it too.
This is just...
Listen to this.
You feel it?
That's a nice, solid thud when it closes, right?
I was immediately impressed by the amount of resistance, adjusting the display.
Right.
The display is on there.
I like the way it goes back.
And yeah, it is...
Look at that.
I'm sitting there bouncing it, buddy.
I'm bouncing it up and down.
That is not moving.
No, it's great.
And also a touch screen, which you may or may not use, but it's there.
And Unity does work pretty well with that.
Interestingly, so I've had my family, I've had Hadia using this, I've had Dylan using
this.
And interestingly enough, both of them just sort of intuitively when they're like browsing
Amazon or in Dylan's case, YouTube, reach out and scroll.
Or when Dylan and I are sitting here both using this computer together and there's something
he wants to look at, he just reaches out and touches it.
And he doesn't...
He didn't even know it was a touch screen.
I don't think I said anything to Hadia either.
I saw them both sitting there on their lap and they're using it to scroll through web
pages.
So the touch screen...
I can see that for the consuming side, you know?
Yeah.
Like when you don't have it docked already.
So what's the port situation like?
Well, so here's what we got, Wes.
You got yourself a Thunderbolt USB-C style port.
I think...
I don't know.
I haven't really tested it yet.
But yeah, it's USB-C shaped.
Then you've got USB 3.0 headphone jack out.
It's also got a little battery gauge on the side so you can...
Does yours still have that too?
Is that something they've had since the beginning?
Oh yeah.
Mine has that as well.
Yeah.
Mine does too.
Which I just like.
I like being able to hit a button on the side of the laptop and see what the battery is.
It's got an SD card reader and then it also has another USB port on the other side.
So two USB 3.0 ports, SD card reader, USB-C, which has the Thunderbolt icon on it.
Although I have not tested that under Linux.
But it's...
I have used USB-C. So I know that works.
That's awesome.
But I have not used Thunderbolt because I don't have any Thunderbolt stuff that has the USB-C
plug.
But it has...
Oh yeah.
I guess I don't either.
But you see it has that little Thunderbolt icon, little logo next to it.
Oh yeah.
The plug there.
So yeah.
That's interesting.
What is this weird future we live in?
I know.
USB-C future, man.
It's something.
I got to say though.
That is a handsome device.
I would be proud to take it anywhere.
Yeah.
It is.
Exactly.
It's not like the old Dells where you're like, well, yeah, I mean I bought it.
It wasn't that expensive and it works for me but it doesn't look that great.
It's not like that.
Yeah.
My first impressions are pretty good in all those regards.
So I've been getting my family's impression.
I've been using it.
I'm going to reload it pretty soon with a different distro and just different desktop
environment and see what that's like because I always like to, you know, both in a lot
of...
I don't actually...
I can't think of anybody that doesn't ship the hardware preloaded with Ubuntu.
I mean they all...
Everybody does, right?
I mean the ones that obviously come to mind are System76.
They ship it with Ubuntu but all my System76 rigs, I've generally at some point loaded
other distributions on there.
Even if I go back to Ubuntu or specifically Ubuntu Mate, I still sometimes run Arch for
a little bit or Fedora or anything else.
And so it's nice to know the general compatibility with Linux 2, not just the Ubuntu compatibility
but so far the out of the box stuff, top notch.
That's awesome.
Yeah.
And I came across this for the previous version of the XPS.
Last year.
Which is...
Actually, no.
Did I come across this or did you?
Because you and I found some of the same links.
We might have both.
Yeah.
But this is getting Mac OS on the XPS 13, the 9350 edition.
So I thought I'd just drop this in there.
For those of you who are crazy enough to do that, that's a thing.
I look at those K extensions.
Yeah.
Have fun with that after the next update comes out.
Then also what showed up on Reddit slash R slash Ubuntu is a review of the XPS 15 KabyLake
with the NVIDIA 1050, which is now starting to get into the range of like an actual computer
I'd really want to consider.
And this is not an official Dell supported configuration, I don't believe.
But I think our local resident Wimpy has messed around with the XPS 15 running Linux and has
had some good success, right Wimpy?
I have.
I've got the fifth generation 13 and the XPS 15.
Okay.
So and have you had any problems running Linux on the XPS 15 even though Dell doesn't ship
in that config?
No, because the Dell reseller I got it from offered configuration options that included
the exact same Wi-Fi card as is in the XPS 13.
So it just everything else is the same apart from the Wi-Fi chipset in that model and therefore
it just works.
Huh.
Okay.
So that was what you kind of have to take away from that I think is make sure you get
the...
This is the thing.
I think that was then though.
I think now they only sell the models with both models of Wi-Fi chipset compatible with
Linux.
Yeah.
Okay.
It looks like in this review this guy didn't have to fight with wireless either.
Ww, you had a question about the 13?
Yeah.
Have you used it under a heavy load?
Because I've heard people in our own IRC room that have used it under a heavy load and had
a coil whine issue because when the fan kicks up so fast and high that you hear kind of
a whining from it.
Yeah.
I'm actually going to specifically test that because I've heard that from the community
as well.
So it's interesting that you picked up on that too.
So the only real heavy load I've put it under which did kick the fans a little bit is we
watched a 4K YouTube video.
Oh, okay.
HTML5.
Didn't hear any whine then but it was literally for like three minutes.
So I'm going to do like some extensive testing.
What is a good way other than like Prime95 or something from like the ancient days?
Is there like a really solid like run this command and it generates a lot of CPU usage
besides building software?
I think there's a version of the Heaven's Engine benchmark for Linux that you could
possibly use.
Yeah.
I will check it out.
I can definitely figure out ways to cause CPU usage but I would like to do sustained
like minutes.
Just keep compiling that kernel for your MacBook.
Yeah.
Right.
So that's something to try.
But yeah.
Worth noting.
There's two things.
There's a good benchmark for Onyx test suite which will like run a whole bunch of games
and all kind of stuff.
Yeah.
But the thing to note is the coil whine is nothing to do with the fan.
Okay.
Even under no load whatsoever, the coil whine in the really old ones was it would just whistle
just gently enough to be really annoying but under no load at all.
Oh boy.
I've not experienced this on either of mine.
I just add as well.
I guarantee you.
I guarantee you I would be hypersensitive to that.
So if I
It's one of those things like the first time you hear it and then you're done.
Before it was fine and then
Yeah.
Because you know I even
I know a lot of you are like this.
I'm not trying to brag but I can walk in.
I'll walk into a room and I can tell you if a TV screen is on just by the coil whine
of the TV screen.
It's less prominent now with LCDs but it's still a thing.
And so it's one of those where I would be one of the people in the room going like what
is that noise?
And everybody else would be like what are you talking about Chris?
I'm like there is something ringing in here.
I'm really sensitive to that.
And there are entire machines I have stopped
Leave room.
Leave room 15.
There are entire machines I've stopped using because of the noise they make.
So we'll see.
That whine
I've not heard any whine yet.
I would absolutely tell you if I did though.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I got to figure out what the price config is on this one too to give the
So I haven't done the whole price to performance ratio yet stuff either.
So if you're out there and you have one of these machines I'd like to know what you thought,
what you run into specifically if you've had any issues around Kaby Lake, any guy kind
of stuff.
Yeah.
Because I
New chips?
Yeah.
I used to for years was like oh yeah.
No it's no problem with Intel stuff.
But then you know Skylake came around and there was some problems.
Speaking of problems, are you just trolling me with this next one Wes?
Yeah I think so.
Are you really?
Yeah legit?
Yeah good man.
I did.
I saw it and I was like okay well I have to at least send this to Chris and then put it
in.
Yeah.
No I mean that's true.
At the end of the day I guess I decided
It was still low.
This is so awesome.
So we got an update on the ButterFS RAID 5 and RAID 6 status.
This is on the Linux ButterFS mailing list.
Yeah.
And their update goes like this.
They believe and this is coming from Jan and also it's an email thread between Jan and
Hugo and others and they think what they probably should be doing is updating the Wiki to reflect
the fact that things are way more broken than they initially thought.
Like RAID 5 and 6 don't even go near them.
Just some examples, no in some respect it's really great they found this stuff.
So there's that.
In other respects the RAID 5 or 6 scrub will repair data while corrupting parity.
Kind of ironic.
So while you're fixing your data you will corrupt your parity.
Trade one corruption for another.
RAID 6 scrub can report false alerts on CSUM errors.
The dev replace cancel sometimes can cause an entire kernel panic of your system.
And they also are seriously considering re-implementing ButterFS's entire RAID 5, 6 configure the
entire thing using device mapper which is tried and true but old.
So they may be rewriting the entire RAID 5, 6 aspect of ButterFS.
Does that make you want to build a nice big RAID 5 array right now?
Just go all in on ButterFS right now.
I am so stoked about this.
When you saw this Wes did you laugh?
Were you disappointed?
I was like what was your, because my initial reaction was actually a little sad.
We're never going to get there.
Yeah it was a little, I think it was all of those things right.
I was like it was kind of funny and I was thinking of you and just some of the quotes
from the mailing list.
But the part of me that's like I still have a ButterFS RAID 1 system so I'm glad that
they aren't mentioning that in here.
There's some mention of it later.
Yeah there was two links you sent me.
What was the second link you sent me?
The second one was just talking about the Chris over at Facebook who has given.
The one that, the use case that is always mentioned for ButterFS right.
The singular use case.
So they just kind of talk about how they've focused in the past on single drive use cases.
They may change that this year.
Performance stability and then maybe RAID 5, 6 are on their list.
So we'll see.
Maybe if there is a rewrite Facebook will be involved but who knows right.
And that's the thing is like really ButterFS has been relegated to hey Intel XFS has snapshots
that are like fully worked out.
Here's some snapshots for your root file system.
Don't trust data in any serious NASA RAID.
XFS everybody XFS if you don't need all the features of ZFS please consider XFS for your
home partition.
It's just a few letters less than Z.
It's almost there.
It's close.
It's damn near close.
Or maybe your VAR I don't care.
Hey I'm honey badger about it but XFS my friends please consider it.
And then if you want a grown up file system that's used in production ZFS.
I don't mean I'm not even saying that to be antagonistic.
It's just the reality now.
And oh this hurts so bad.
This hurts.
And remember I know I know we are now like a year into Chris bashing ButterFS but the
year before that I put all my shit on ButterFS.
Like my actual.
In fact I mean I still have root partitions on ButterFS.
You do as well.
The VM server that runs a bunch of the local servers here at Jupiter Broadcasting is all
of that stuff is stored on ButterFS.
Like the back end data storage is ZFS but the server itself is running all that stuff.
We are ButterFS all up in this business still to this day.
And we have arch machines in those VMs running on ButterFS.
We heard you like ButterFS.
Jeez and I'm not using any of the RAID features though and it's really been fine.
Yeah exactly.
And the systems don't feel the dis a lot.
They're running kind of the same thing the same jobs the same tasks all the time and
it's actually been fine for that.
So while I've been spending a year kind of trash talking about our fest it's just simply
because I really I want us to be competitive.
Exactly yeah right.
That's what it comes down to is like we it would have been great if ButterFS was the
project that could have built a new GPI license ZFS that we could use and could be in kernel.
That's not what's happened.
Amen.
Exactly.
That is exactly how I feel about it.
That's exactly what I wanted.
And that's why now I say XFS wimpy.
Do you agree.
Yep.
I've done for a long time.
I've had good success with B3FS on root file systems.
This was some time ago but you know for out and out performance with the compression it
was brilliant but then not because of the issues that have since come to light with
B3FS but I started using F2FS because I've moved to SSD so F2FS for root file systems
and then XFS for volumes of data.
Will you de-nude me?
What is what is that?
F2FS is a file system developed by Samsung and it's specifically for flash and solid
state devices so it's hot rocking fast on anything from memory cards, USB sticks and
SSDs.
How did you come across this?
It's been around for years.
Yeah I imagine.
I imagine it just doesn't ring a bell for me.
Yeah well it was one of the things I was tinkering with when I was trying to build an OS based
on Arch for the Raspberry Pi years ago and this was a way to get better performance and
the only drawback with F2FS is that it doesn't have all of the user space tools.
So for example there's no file system resize capability at the moment.
Get it right the first time.
So yeah you get it right the first time.
Been there.
Will you put a link to that in the show notes West because I saw you just found that there.
Yes I will.
Yeah I am very fascinated by these and Bcache, FS and others that.
Yeah and that's the one that I tinker with on a spare machine and you know that's my
little hobby file system that I like to keep up to speed with here.
I fantasize about the position that folks like yourself Wimpy and folks like Ryan at
System 76 and System 76 are in where I all of a sudden have to make the decision what
potentially thousands upon tens of thousands of users may use as their default and that
is such a head job for me like when it comes to the like the responsibility of choosing
a file system like there is not when it comes to your core foundation once you've chosen
Linux you made the hard choice now it's like what distro and what file system and you choose
a generally people choose Ubuntu or Ubuntu Mate and then you choose your and that's like
those are the three big choices in my world and I can't imagine I can't imagine like every
time I get in that position I think well you just do extended for because nobody gets fired
for shipping extended for that's that's yep that's the way to think about it or your Sousa
and you do butter fs and then you spend the rest of the year defending butter fs into
oblivion but I digress I think that's an interesting I think that would you ever consider.
Okay let me what would be what would it take before you would flip the bit to make XFS
the default file system for future like 1810 say it's it's Ubuntu Mate 1810 what would
it take to convince you to flip the bit to XFS for the default file system.
It wouldn't take anything to convince me but it's not a decision I could make alone because
it would be something that would affect all of the flavors so they would have to be a
consensus of opinion. Oh it's a flay it's all Ubuntu's that would choose that would
switch.
Yeah yeah because I didn't know that a feature it's a feature of ubiquity yeah we have we
have kernel developers who are quite anti butter fs for for good reason they've done
a lot of testing like pulling out the cable while it's running kind of do you mean do
you mean v3 fs or XFS butter fs sorry fine yeah yeah uh that that's that's interesting
Poby that's that and so I guess the flip side of that is so you could frame it as well we
can't do XFS until all Ubuntu's do XFS but the flip side of that is once Ubiquity has
dropped down checkbox support for ZFS then all of the flavors get it right Wimpy?
Yeah and there is a capability to put plugins into ubiquity so you can have additional steps
in the install installer and the only flavor I'm aware of that ever did that was Mythbuntu
so that you could configure the the back end and front end components individually during
the install so it might be possible that using a plugin that could be overridden I'm not
sure anything like choosing the file system is exposed in the plugin or not I think that's
a separate a separate piece but yeah I'd I'd happily go with with XFS I mean it's proven
itself over many many years now.
I didn't really think about that that that is a that is interesting because you'd really
come down to having to either do a plug-in if they didn't and if they didn't have plug-in
support for the file system and you really were you know you were really serious about
this you'd essentially have to fork ubiquity to pull this off you know those are the kind
of things I don't I haven't thought about but so the choice is sort of made for you
in some sense but the net gain overall is totally worth it.
Yeah but when I when I install my machines I just do the manual partitioning and just
set everything up with XFS anyway.
Yeah I usually do the same.
Ryan do you know if anybody over there at System76 has ever you know kicked around the
idea of switching around the default file system or switching around something like
that?
Is there is there any kind of like a like a skunk works where people try out new file
systems at System76?
Well we do try them out but we typically end up shipping whatever Ubuntu ships by default.
Yeah that kind of seems like a good bet.
Yeah it's safe.
Yeah and also you you get the advantage of a huge user base that's all sort of has the
same common set of configurations and that makes it much easier for people that are looking
for support after the fact.
So we kind of end up this is one of those defaults that truly reign supreme.
So we end up with the extended for and I suppose if if the market came along one day and really
wanted something else we would see a change but for right now for what we need it's getting
the job done.
It's working yeah.
It's getting the job done.
All right well speaking of getting the job done let's talk about Linux Academy.
Talk about a really great way to get the job done and learn more Linux Academy dot com slash
unplugged.
That's where you go to support the show and you sign up for a free seven day trial Linux
Academy dot com slash unplugged.
Take advantage of a platform built by Linux users for freaking Linux users.
That makes all of the difference.
Linux and open source isn't one of the many things they cover.
It's the only thing they cover and that really makes a huge difference.
I'll tell you one of the things I've really liked about Linux Academy is I talked to them
before they were really publicly known and what I want what I worked at what I walked
away from the conversation was what we watched you put a broadcasting and we thought what
if we did a podcast network but we made money and I thought that's a great idea.
I should.
Like well then we kind of kick that idea around and this is what we came up with because they
wanted to spread Linux they wanted more people using it and they recognized there was this
total total gap in the industry for getting you credible good Linux training that the
rest of the industry would get behind and recognize and that to a T is Linux Academy.
They got course schedulers for your busy schedule.
They got video courses they got self paced study guides they got downloadable comprehensive
stuff you can take offline listen in the shower.
That's amazing.
A community full of Jupiter broadcasting members learning paths which are very specific tracks
for your career that are planned out by their instructors.
Oh instructors.
Yeah.
They've got those two full time humans who are happy to advise and answer questions nuggets
are just little teeny bits of wisdom when you're busy and study guides and audio you
can take with you and a notebook you can keep fold out filled out and here's the best part
note cards take advantage is one of the best things of open source that is people forking
stuff and making it better.
They got those with the note cards they integrate little things like that some concepts from
the open source community into the platform.
It's genius.
They've also got IOS and Android apps now and they're building out content like a mo
add and stuff all the time.
I think it's probably one of the coolest companies I've watched grow up over the last few years
and one of the nicest things about Linux Academy is legitimately every single week there's
something cool and new to talk about.
I love how much stuff they're doing I love how hard they're hitting it and I love the
results our community is getting.
You start by going to linuxacademy.com slash unplugged sign up for a free seven day trial
try it out yourself see how useful it is.
Look at the public profiles see how you can use that to tell management what you've been
working on and then when you're all done at the end of the day just sit back and play
around their lab servers.
That's what I would do linuxacademy.com slash unplugged and a big thank you to Linux Academy
for sponsoring the unplugged program what are you doing did you go to sleep and have
to wake back up again?
Yeah that's right I did.
What does that solve?
What problem did you fix by sleeping in your laptop and rewaking it?
Sadly nothing.
Nothing.
What's wrong?
Does it lock up on you?
Chrome was just being weird wasn't like clicking with the mouse at all so.
What distro I just tried out a distro recently oh man I can't remember I just recently tried
out a distro that had Chrome and Chromium installed oh no it was it was wait a minute
no no no no no no hold it it was the XPS 13.
It came out of the box from Dell with Chrome and Chromium installed like what the hell
is this about like why why do you have why do you have Chrome and Chromium like you just
do one or the other and and not Firefox not Firefox.
This is a privilege of an OEM that works with Canonical to produce their images.
A privilege they can they can install three web browsers?
They can they can they can work with Canonical or they can install three browsers but they
can work with Canonical to change what's on the image they don't have to use the vanilla
image they can actually make customizations.
Oh yeah one of the other things I noticed is a pretty slick actually really slick boot
up animation music animation it makes Ubuntu really feel like a you remember when Mac OS
way back in the day had like these welcome to Mac OS animations kind of okay yeah this
is like those only way better it's really well done yeah yeah so so you boot it up you
get like this you get this whole full screen video presentation but yeah you do get Chrome
and Chromium and so does is there so when we might understand that there is like a back
and forth like we will we will like how does that work like how do they how are they able
to add something today did they like carve out a deal with Google to redistribute Chrome
is that what I'm to understand?
I don't know what the arrangement is regarding Google but I know that what they're able to
negotiate as to what deviations they want to make from the vanilla image so this doesn't
make like still be recognized as Ubuntu and supported so it's not like it doesn't become
like a Dell Ubuntu?
No Canonical will still recognize it as Ubuntu and it is supported okay that's nice okay that's
that's nice I want to just two stories and then I want to get into some new hardware
that's coming out of system 76 that's going to mine all the bitcoins did you know that
kernel.org back in 19 well they shut it down in 98 but until 1998 you could mount kernel.org
via NFS or Samba over the internet yep that's fun yeah yeah I think I'm
you might have done it once maybe and I didn't even know what the hell I was doing back then
and they were just you ran a magic command and then like a kernel popped out and it was
just the worst though Wimby did you ever do this?
I remember trying to get it working through our company firewall over NFS once and about
that time then figured out this was a really bad idea yeah and just worked out how to write
a script to make FTP recursively grapple there you go not NFS and SIFS not known for their
tolerance of high latency connections not what they're strong at yeah FTP much better
but it is 2017 and 19 years later kernel.org is announcing that they are terminating their
FTP services no more FTP for you Wes there's a good discussion just about like that FTP
can be tricky with firewalls and some good highlights like they can be sent to random
port numbers they may originate from server or client destination addresses are
negotiated on the fly so I can see why it's just like a lot more of a burden to maintain
than just use HTTP yeah but not for them in a way like well yeah I guess as long as they
keep our sync up I'm happy really to be honest with you but an HTTP I'm good yeah I I don't
know though because you know I I still have muscle memory for FTP kernel.org FTP kernel.org
yeah that's fair that's gonna be weird that's gonna be weird but time time moves on also
moving on I thought this was sort of interesting and I'll just link it up in the show notes
for you guys but super quick if you're like me and you're on a super limited bandwidth
connection at home or or maybe you're on a LAN with tons and tons of workstations running
steam I don't know steam pipe and other utilities like NGINX can be used to locally cache steam
updates game files and whatnot on your LAN Ars Technica has a whole write-up about it
that will have linked in the show notes you could only cache games you own and it caches
them the first time you pull them down so it's not like you can pull you can't like
take steam pipe point it at the steam store pull down all of the things have it right
there not gonna work that way no and this is like a combination of NGINX and steam pipe
and other things to help you sort of solve the problem maybe got a LAN game or you got
a whole bunch of machines or like my cell mates also use steam there are also times
where my my fight connection and lady jupes is super strong and I maybe want to do this
kind of stuff and then there's times where it's not so good and it would be nice that
when I read when I reset up a machine or I'm trying out a system for review to be able
to just pull them from a local system all raise the Sun when do I not yeah when do I
not the answer is never so this is kind of a neat feature and I I don't really have much
to add we're not gonna go through the whole how to here but if you want to locally cache
your steam games and who doesn't right I also like to have my own local pac-man repo my
own app repo I mean come on I have all the things so ours has a write-up on on that now
West when I say system 76 you say fantastic computers when I say or x2 I say I say laptops
actually yeah laptop which is fun though they have test I know some of my first systems
actually my second system 76 machine was a desktop so I know I know that I know that
but you know what I you know what I haven't said for a while and every now and then I
mentioned on Linux action show but you know it didn't come to the tip of my mind servers
but system 76 has a whole line of so I did not know that and I have been led to believe
that once people have been convinced of the system 76 persuasion they usually end up coming
back looking for more like servers I don't know if that's true or not but mr. Ryan Sipes
is in the mumble room and perhaps he can confirm rumors of a new ibis pro right is it true
that was right yes there it is that was he was too busy playing with the new ibis pro
I like the I like I kind of got I was on the edge of my seat there for a second that was
that was really good this is not just any old server though Ryan right because this
is like one that could have like a whole bunch of GPUs in it this is like a Bitcoin maniac
8 Tesla P 100s 3000 CUDA cores it's a pretty big piece of a machine 1.5 terabytes of RAM
32 terabytes of SSD storage if that's your persuasion 8 GPUs so Ryan is it am I kind
of right though it do a lot of people they end up coming to system 76 they buy a desktop
they buy a laptop maybe I'm a school district and all of a sudden I find a lab full of system
76 machines and next thing I know I need a server and people kind of get sort of well
they get swayed by the whole system 76 package is that is that is that a kind of a common
entry point for the servers or can you can you talk a little bit about what system 76
is doing in the server space it's not something we talk a lot about sure thing we we offer
a full line of servers from your like basic one you you know server that maybe is running
I don't know like maybe use it as a web server maybe it's some something that's not really
intensive on GPU or or you know not we offer from the small server all the way up to the
new ibex pro which is a beast it's a monster my kind of machine yeah and the thing is is
that a lot of folks come for the laptops and desktops but they stay for the the awesome
server line that we have and they look to us for our fantastic Linux support when they're
considering that type of machine GPUs in servers yeah I'm familiar with like scientific workloads
and pretty familiar with like live streaming use cases but I I can see you know a lot of
different server side workloads coming I joke about Bitcoin it's not really what you would
use this machine for but man I yeah I could imagine there's people out there like in there
like the design industry or the scientific community that must need a lot of GPU power
right right yeah machine learning and render farms for like 3d video these are common use
cases that we hear about I've said this before I think on the program but we have some customers
who everybody knows who does who's really big into machine learning maybe even autonomous
driving those type of companies and they they've been looking forward to us producing a machine
like this hmm yeah now but we set up one of those steam streaming servers and I can just
play right here on my laptop we'll have the Jupiter broadcasting streaming service one
of these things it wouldn't just be for you and I could be for everybody yeah that's pretty
great I think I think when I when I have when I picture like the ultimate school district
I would totally like love like labs with system 76 desktops secretaries on the all-in-one
systems and office staff all and teacher computers would all be the all-in-one systems servers
on these I'm not the GPUs but you know just right so that kind of stuff that would be
nice that'd be such a sweet such a sweet setup so Ryan you're you're telling me people are
still buying local servers and installing them on-premises I thought everybody went
to the cloud well those cloud providers have to buy their servers and they need more powerful
servers than ever so you guys got to stay busy yeah fortunately we've had really really
great reception to our server line and the demand just continues to grow and so we've
continued to grow our server line demand and so I I would encourage anyone who is looking
to or works at a data center or for you know a university doing machine learning protein
folding things that are really GPU heavy to take a look at the ibis you know when you
talk about buying time on one of these GPU servers it isn't cheap in fact some of the
cloud providers require you to enter into some kind of limp like amount of time that
you have to use it because they have to spin up that thing on site in order to make a instance
available to you and so sometimes this it seems crazy when you're talking about a machine
that can range anywhere from nine thousand dollars to a hundred and fourteen thousand
dollars but if you're a big you know enterprise or university sometimes having something like
this on site can be cheaper than renting time on a cloud service hey man mine's only 41,000
I don't know what you're talking about I configured a system you know just for casual usage just
for casual usage casual usage with how many cores did I put in there oh I put 22 cores
in there with 44 you should get to yeah so that's the new ibis from system 76 holy smokes
I also wanted to bring some stuff up because lots of folks have been really excited to
see that we're making a new product release and I wanted to reiterate that Carl is speaking
at ubu con and we'll be releasing three products while he's on stage so people who are in the
Pasadena area or can make it out there should totally attend that talk cool man awesome
and of course check out the ibex over at system of family sex calm I'm just gonna you know
I like I like anytime you have a system that has a configuration option of first CPU memory
and then second CPU memory and the option is 768 gigabytes of RAM you're not playing
around this is a wow yeah and then the base CPU design is 2800 course you know and it
can go you can go all the way up from there to like 39,000 cores that is a beast of a
system well I know what I want from my birthday yeah that's a whole that's a whole another
level speaking of another level let's talk about our last and final but you know what
honestly the sponsor that I'm using right now as we do this very show so you can't call
them last and definitely you can't call them the least they are digital ocean go over to
digital ocean calm and use our promo code do unplugged get a ten dollar credit you spin
up a rig try it out you got an open source project you got a demo you want to do in a
podcast in a few minutes you do it on a digital ocean droplet oh you'll see what I'm talking
about digital ocean calm use our promo code do unplugged after you sign up you get a ten
dollar credit you can try out there three cents an hour rig nice machine three cents
an hour is is really an unbelievable rate to get a really fast computer with a 40 gigabit
e-connection everything has SSDs regardless of the price you pay a brilliant control panel
super smooth straightforward API and documentation that is to die for digital ocean calm use
the promo code deal unplugged you create your account you go in there you get in there
all like a boss you get your username you do your email thing then you log in you type
in deal unplugged you get the ten dollar credit you go nuts so you get the five dollar rate
go go crazy for two months I don't I'm not gonna judge I won't tell people what you're
doing I mean you can tell me what you're doing but I won't tell them what you're doing come
on I know it it's great there's so many things you know right now as we record this show
I'm using digital ocean to host my IRC I'm using digital ocean to stream this here very
show I know I'm using digital ocean to sync the files I'm using to play on this show and
to talk about and I've been using digital ocean this morning to set up the files I'm
using digital ocean to talk to our virtual lug because the mobile room runs on a digital
ocean droplet hey you there's so many things we use digital ocean for and it doesn't matter
if you're a beginner or if you're an expert you'll find their interface is fantastic they
got data centers all over the world so even our international audience will find something
locally that hyper serves their customers and then they have some of the best freaking
best documentation on the web not because they copied it and set up a wiki but because
they've really worked with their community they've rewarded the very let's say high producing
members of the community who create really great content they've monetarily rewarded
them they've hired full-time and I'm plural here full-time editors to edit the documentation
like they take every aspect of their business super serious and right now not only are they
rolling out this really nice front-end system to help manage your traffic and spread it
across your entire infrastructure but the beta that I've been playing around with is
their monitoring system integrates right in with the dashboard I can enroll my existing
droplets and I can quote-unquote upgrade them to monitoring nice dude so nice so cool honestly
for us like for a couple of our servers we kind of guessed on how much horsepower we
needed to like dude live transcoding video but we didn't really know and now with this
new system I can get a much better idea so I can really kind of narrow in on the kind
of performance I do I need more do I need less pushing it or you're just wasting that's
the thing dude and it's really nice digitalocean.com use the promo code do unplugged it just gets
better every single week and a big thank you to digital ocean for sponsoring the unplugged
program digitalocean.com and use that promo code do you and plugged so Wes you see my
screen right here right now what is that top that's Popeys computer right there I am logged
into Popeys computer using that you know RM dash all right I just kidding we were talking
Popey and I were talking earlier today and it's like well maybe I'll set up a droplet
for you because he doesn't want me to hack his system but this is using teleconsole which
is an epic we featured on Sunday and what's even better than this is I think and I'm guessing
but probably I think you kind of got involved in this because you found that either you
did you help get involved with the snap or you found it had a snap and yeah I discovered
teleconsole last week there was it featured on Hacker News and it rose up the github trending
projects and I thought oh that looks interesting let's take a look and I contacted their CEO
that the company that is called gravitational that that made teleconsole and said hey would
you like your application snapped and put in the store and I had a conversation with
them on late on Friday night last week and I'd already snapped it by this point it was
already packaged up as a snap and I had a chat with them and they said seriously you
just want my permission to put it in the store I said yeah he wouldn't do it so that was
it I put it in the store and I'll hand it over to them shortly I've created a pull request
on their github repo so they can they can take ownership of it but basically if you
the directory you're in is just a directory on a on a like you said on a digital ocean
droplet but in there is a yaml file if you do an LS oh yeah there's a yaml file in there
and that's the conflict that I created it's not it's not hugely complex wow that's all
it took I'm gonna I'm gonna look at that again look at look at that so yeah it's really the
three lines well no that I mean it's less than that if you take out the description
yeah you take out all the metadata there's like three lines yeah this is so you have
copy and then there's a you have a tar file and this is made simpler because it's it's
a go file it means a go program that's pretty much all statically linked it's all ready
to go so it's not like a ton of extra depths have to be installed but this is I mean you're
running this in a web browser you're connected over a web browser we're using teleconsole
that's amazing so this is the cool thing we're using teleconsole to talk about teleconsole
so I'm I just installed teleconsole snap from the store and then ran teleconsole and it
gave me a URL I gave that to Chris and he could open that URL in a browser and then
look at my machine and actually interact with the machine so I can sit here and this is
great for providing support if you've got family members who have got an Ubuntu machine
they can install teleconsole or whenever they need help they can run teleconsole give you
the URL you can connect and there's no port forwarding there's no SSH keys or any of that
nonsense and you did mention on Laz that it is possible to do this with a github ID you
could do it without that you can just give them a URL which is what we did here it's
brilliant and what's what's fascinating is if poppy right if you resize your window on
your side does it resize it on my side like it's it is it is very much what what I see
is we're gonna make it smaller or larger try making it a little tiny try making a hair
larger does it are you just read you're just dragging the window on your screen so I'm
just grabbing the terminal window and I've just made it slightly bigger oh that's so
cool that is so great and then you can revoke the session essentially and I can just press
ctrl D and it will exit out of teleconsole and I'm done or I can close the window because
it's just a terminal but it's just so nice yeah it's really really nice what what I what
I what I gravitate towards here is more and more things like this are showing up as snaps
and I this is why I think I'm probably for my five-year bulletproof distro gonna end
up on Ubuntu derivative of some some sort of derivative of Ubuntu I don't know if it's
if it's neon I don't know if it's Ubuntu Mate I don't know if it's Ubuntu proper right
now on the XPS I'm running Ubuntu proper but this kind of thing between PPA snaps apps
and maybe even flat packs that is a whole range and Docker it's a whole range of applications
that are really simple really easy to get going and and there's more and more stuff
I'm seeing showing up showing up as a snap pick it up yeah and if if there's people listening
to this thinking oh I'm on Ubuntu 1404 and I really want to have a go with this teleconsole
well snap D landed in 1404 like yesterday oh wow yeah so if you with with isolation
yep really if you apt get install snap D on 1404 you'll get snap D and the confinement
bits and pieces on an uplifting kernel to kernel 4.4 and then you can snap install to
your heart's content as well oh man what is what is toilet is that what is it's like it's
just it's like figlet figlet is like a font thing that lets you put big banner text and
toilet is just similar yeah I don't know why it's great so not only can I remotely control
poppy's machine but he of course he can now control the stream so this is great like you
can have two people can have a text editor open at the like the same fire sure two people
can like cooperate on the same thing yeah it's just amazing I love it maybe this is
what we do tomorrow now our plans are being scuppered we use this yeah we can work together
yeah remotely via a session sure console yeah great yeah really it is it is perfect for
support it is perfect for collaboration and it feels I so when we covered this on last
on Sunday I got the typical well this is just the perfect way to get hacked type responses
and I understand where people are coming from but one of the things I like about teleconsole
as opposed to giving somebody straight SSH access to your machine is it's session ID
based and you can revoke sessions so you actually in some regards have more control over who
has access to your machine using teleconsole and because you can watch them you you literally
have more oversight I will say then that that goes back if we I think we talked about it
briefly on the show a while ago the the backing technology it's basically a demo for gravitational
teleport which is their own SSH daemon implementation and so if you're using one of our fine sponsors
and you have your own infrastructure where maybe you want this kind of audit ability
or control or seamless access for devs who aren't as you know friendly you can use teleport
or things like this to get similar functionality in your own infrastructure like Wes okay that
makes sense that's a great way to do it too and that's that's the next step is I I've
taught the guys how to do a snap for teleconsole the next step is that they're gonna make a
snap out of teleport so you could have your own on-premises teleport or in a digital ocean
droplet I I really like poppy how simple the yaml file is so the yaml file describes to
snap what it should do it's like the instruction file and it's it is it is ridiculously simple
when something is a tar file that is essentially statically linked or doesn't have a lot of
dependencies right but you could if you wanted to in this yaml file couldn't you even pull
crap off of like an FTP site to install right you couldn't you can pull from anywhere and
there are way more companies I mean this is one of the more simple ones if you actually
type snapcraft in that window right now it will build the snap it will just open the
yaml file and create the snap straightaway oh hello oh you haven't got any so wait you
gotta have text-to-text well let me install some software on your computer really quick
here remotely that's what computers are for yeah this feels good I like installing software
on other people's computers so yes you're right and and some of the more complicated
apps are pulling in libraries from here and there or building something from source and
it can get a lot more complicated this was it was quite beneficial that when I saw this
last week I I looked at it and thought well that's a go binary it's a single implement
sure entire solution as one thing and oh hello what's going on there oh man yeah yeah that's
broken yeah yeah well okay you would normally just type snapcraft and it will build so Ryan
you have had so you've been saw even you have installed a several or a few or some
snaps on your system yeah I've been trying to install via snap first before I install
via any other method and I thought I would have a really bad time just because it's
still growing and and things are changing but generally I've had a good experience
in fact so good that I've been working on a game with somebody else in the system 76
community and it's called code breakers you can snap install code breakers right now and
we snap that up and it was a lot of fun and it works really well cool I I didn't even
realize I was actively using snaps until this morning when I did a mount command and saw
I had three snaps mounted and I realized oh yeah I have I have notice that as well I have
three snap apps installed on my machine upstairs and I didn't even you know once you get them
loaded up and on your path and it works yeah it just totally works fine they also update
as part of like the normal update procedure which I guess I didn't really realize oh they
do so yeah I mean like as part of the update it must run the snap command but there's been
times when somebody has been like oh yeah go ahead and update this update this package
and you'll have the new sweetness and I go to update and it's like everything's up to
date and I'm like well I didn't I didn't run snap refresh but apparently and somebody can
correct me if I'm wrong but I've always had just a running normal updates always had the
update snaps interesting I I have not I don't think I've ran any snap I don't have not I
have not ran a single snap command on my workstation upstairs since I installed them so I don't
I should look at that on arch because I don't know what that situation is on arch I installed
them a while ago and I think I forgot about them and I I don't want that to be what happens
with with those types of applications because that's just a that's a recipe for disaster
so I should try to walk Chris I know I know I forgot I honestly forgot I did it and I'm
just I'm so used to my package manager installing everything else exactly I didn't even think
about it but they've been running great so there's that so teleconsole combined with
snap combined with that github thing is a pretty powerful future mm-hmm and I I really
think I'm I at least I'm feeling inclined to use a distribution that supports snaps
but I'm kind of feeling inclined to use an Ubuntu based district with flat back snaps
PPAs app files they're just in the general repo I mean like all that stuff is just really
appealing to me mm-hmm what are you working on oh geez sorry I just fixed that in the
background okay cool look at that see that's what's so great about this right there boom
you just have Poby fix things for you now though now Poby's Twitter feed will be filled
with Poby help me that is that is really neat and I noticed too that they have an EU specific
server for teleconsole eu.teleconsole.com well anything else Poby you want touch on
before we know if you want some fun that's not command line stuff I also pushed a game
to the snap store called oh my giraffe so if you snap install oh my giraffe then it's
not it's not something I've written it's someone another guy wrote and I offered to snap it
for him and put it in the store and it's a fun game so yeah oh my giraffe snap install
oh my giraffe it's great you know before the show I tried to figure out how I would install
teleconsole as a snap is there like a is there a website the audience should go to to find
a list of the latest snapped up applications so the goal the goal really is for us to once
once an upstream has got something snapped and it's in the store is to update their documentation
basically so that rather than it say go and get this source and build this source or add
this PPA it just says snap install food right because that's the easiest so once once the
upstream for teleconsole has taken over ownership of this and it's not mine we'll get them to
update their documentation so that it's I see snap install teleconsole blah blah blah
I should have just used the snap command to search for teleconsole instead of searching
the web too that would have I don't know what I was thinking I was being a noob I was being
a snap noob that's what work on it I know I gotta get my s together next week you better
snap install something live on the show prove that you know how okay you better remind me
cuz I'll forget about snaps about everything all right well that's pretty cool I love it
I love it so thanks poppy for at least dedicating a machine sacrificing a machine let Chris yeah
I'm gonna burn it clearly broken yeah it never again should be trusted all right well we
have to get out of here because as is a thing now mr. West has an upcoming episode of tech
snap that's right and so while we can't just slack we gotta be we gotta be like a serious
production here and room it's new to us we're working on it for the new tech snap program
which is live on Tuesdays in fact all our shows are live you can find their times at
Jupiter broadcasting comm slash calendar you can leave us your feedback at Linux action
show at our reddit comm a comment wherever you watch this or go to Jupiter broadcasting
comm slash contact and send us in your feedback we'd love to have you join us live next week
at JB live TV hang out in our virtual lug there's always more so catch the whole live
experience we'll see you right back here next Tuesday
I've never installed GNU slash Linux you know what's been weird West is I've been trying
this bulletproof Linux at the same time a lot of folks are blogging about switching
from Mac OS to Linux and so it's been interesting to watch their what they reach out for yeah
and I've been following bit cannon which is by the way hashtag this guy I first I was
like is this West because his hashtag on Twitter is West on Linux wow so big cannon aka West
on Linux he just posted another part two yesterday of switching from Mac OS to Linux and it is
a really good post I debated reading in the show I just didn't want to rehash the same
ground over and freaking over again but long story short he settles on elementary OS because
of how it looks how it works finds a bunch of cracks and rough edges as time goes on
ends up back on arch this is a Mac OS user ends up back on arch and installing the budgie
desktop hey yo pretty much exactly where I'm yes it is wow which is really interesting
they tried gnome 3 and then he went to you went to budgie I don't know he went with the
arc theme and the arc icons too which is my exact setup wow anyways it's fascinating fascinating
fascinating post bit cannon net if you want to read the rest of it's good yeah it's been
really good to read this because as somebody who like is consistently thinking about this
stuff I love kind of reading running running through the kind of like path you know going
down this trying to read the same path of these people followed how did they end up
here the context they were living in and how they're adapting yeah why is he using Geary
why is he why is he using neo vim why is he using Firefox what was the what was the thought
process that led there what is his opinion of files all that stuff really good super
good post bit cannon dot net if you want to read that almost almost made it into the show
dot com because we put one more Mac OS X link everyone will kill us I have to stop talking
about it at some point but I just I love it it's like finally it's happening death by
download what's that a reference to that's good what's that a reference to the Android
story I believe oh yeah okay oh yeah right brick in the thing yep yep yep yep beam me
up poppy software license to kill that's clever that's clever yeah I like James Bond references
black phone hits the bricks plasma heats up winter these are good ones yeah needs more
wimpy that's what the red pepper says needs more wimpy you hear that plane wimpy's been
typing furiously this evening really well good for you black phone kill switch oh you
just gotta you just gotta embrace the default that's my path to happiness just use breathe
start that's all you really mean you got to you have to and then you have to be willing
to just accept like I'm gonna be I'm gonna be honest with you guys there are aspects
of breeze dark that don't hold up like you have a full so you take like the system settings
window and there's not and you go to one of the settings that doesn't have a lot going
on and then you maximize that you will see gradient bars in the dark theme I am a picky
son of a bitch so I am I am letting some stuff slide but only because with every innovative
release they have improved stuff and I just feel like if I just hang it tight yeah it'll
get better yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it doesn't you know it doesn't look worse than
breeze light very large resolution screen because I'm on 1080p it's a 2k Asus screen
which I think is the perfect resolution for Linux I think 2k not 4k not 1080p but 2k is
perfect for Linux everything looks great everything scales fine you can fit a ton of shit on your
screen but it's not where there's like the little issues like now where's that XPS so
this XPS 13 out of the box has high DPI support turned on however in the installer the what
do you call the top bar in unity what do you call that what do you call this top bar in
unity where all your menus hide panel the global panel the panel so on the XPS 13 when
you boot it up for the first time the panels doubled you can see there's essentially it
looks like two panels but what it really is is the background graphic for the panels just
repeated twice it's it's we fix that yeah we fix that system 76 fix that I was gonna
say it's right in there and then and then do you see those lines at the bottom of the
screen oh yeah yeah also also only only shows up under their implementation of high DPI
yeah we totally fix that too yeah it doesn't bother that doesn't bother I mean the actually
that does bother me that right there those lines right now that I've seen it only West
can really see it probably right I don't think there's there's not there's no way no but
they're there they're so there's there's definitely little issues so so Ryan I'm gonna say something
and then you can carry on okay so Chris fixes fixes to those problems you've just described
landed today really whoa yeah Ryan over to you yeah so we fix those problems actually
David and our new kernel engineer worked on that and Cassidy that was a high DPI fix it
that we blogged the fixes that we blogged about here recently they bugged the hell out
of us too so we went ahead and did something about it and those should those should be
in the ISO and 1604.2 brilliant nice nice very nice because it's awesome it's getting
down to some rough edges now but they're rough edges really like a little right yeah every
once in a while we go ahead and fix Del's problems.